I'm Jens and I work as a full-stack software engineer. However, I started out as a guitar player and worked as a professional musician for the longer part of my career, playing acoustic and electric guitar and also some other string instruments like mandolin, resonator guitar and an electric zither. I did MTV Unplugged twice, appeared on TV and recorded and toured with a major German-speaking artist, whose name I will only reveal when you ask me;-)

At some point, though, I had the urge to break out of this world and do something else, without really knowing what that should be. I ended up studying psychology, which got me interested in statistics and led me to start programming. After receiving a master's degree in psychology, I got a PhD in what I like to call computational sociology\sidenote{}{My supervisor was a sociologist and I wrote computer simulations of more or less social phenomena, most notably [modeling an influenza season's spread](https://github.com/tomatitito/sir-model) with the SIR model using probabilistic programming. I'm still proud of it.}. While working on my thesis, I even studied computer science for a couple of semesters. But after my first son was born, there was no way I was going to finish that.

After a very brief time in academia, I went into industry. I started working as a data scientist, trying to follow the advice of my former manager to "not do anything totally idiotic". It turned out that that's surprisingly difficult in an enterprise setting. \sidenote{}{I did not yet have the chance to tell him that I really tried hard, but it's not easy.} After two years, I finally moved on into software engineering. This is where I have been for a while now: a full-stack developer in E-Commerce.

I am also an open-source contributor in that I am one of the authors of the [stan-language-server](https://github.com/tomatitito/stan-language-server) \sidenote{}{Stan is a probabilistic programming language. It's not the one I used in my PhD thesis, but it's actually state-of-the-art if you are doing probabilistic programming.}

If you want to get in touch with me, just [send me an email](#) or a message on [X](https://x.com/notjustmusic). You can also find me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jens-kouros-b937289/) and [GitHub](https://github.com/tomatitito/). I would like to hear from you!

# now

Lately I have been spending a lot of time working with AI agents, exploring how to best work with them to build software. It has been a journey of discovery, with both successes and setbacks. But overall, these experiences have gradually led me to believe that we are at the beginning of a fundamental shift in how we approach software engineering.

<!--I am heavily into working with agents, trying different stuff to learn how to reliably get good results out of them. I had good and mixed experiences, but overall I can get so much out of it, that by now I am convinced that the future of software engineering will change dramatically. Even though I had been using coding agents for more than a year, it just recently struck me. I can't really say that there was a special moment that made me change my mind. I think it was more the culmination of all my experiences with it, and also what I had been reading or hearing about it. 
-->
<!--To me, it is a lot of fun. I am with Steve Yegge, when he says, that vibe coding \sidenote{}{Some people make a distinction between vibe coding and vibe engineering. There is no real definition, so I don't want to get caught up in terminology.} is addictive. I'm also with him when he says that it's hard. It is this strange interplay of randomness and determinism. You want as much determinism as possible, but at the same time, the randomness is where the magic comes from. -->
This new way of working is not just a technical change; it's a shift in perspective (at least for me). It encourages a stronger focus on the desired outcome and behavior of an application, which I find both challenging and rewarding. From a more philosophical point of view, there is this strange interplay of randomness and determinism. You want as much determinism as possible, but at the same time the randomness is where the magic comes from.

I guess I'm lucky in that I enjoy figuring this out, as opposed to some people that I know and admire. 

<!--I already notice that I start to approach writing software differently. And I don't mean, that I'm not really typing code by hand anymore. What I mean is that I start to think more about what the code is supposed to do, and how I (or an agent) can make sure that it actually does. So, you could call that a test-driven approach, even though it does not necessarily mean unit testing. In fact, I have the feeling that end-to-end tests and also all kinds of "manual" tests will become increasingly more important, especially if you start to look less at the code itself and more at the desired output or behaviour of an application. -->

